Doc: starting-guide-concept-review (#4)
WilliamBergamin/bolt-python: docs/_future/manifest.md

---
title: Manifest
lang: en
slug: manifest
order: 2
layout: future
---

<div class="section-content">

> Your project should contain a `manifest.json` file that defines your app's manifest, where you can configure your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your project should contain a `manifest.json` file that defines your app's manifest, which is where you can configure your application name and scopes, declare the functions your app will use, and more.
```

> Refer to <a href="https://api.slack.com/reference/manifests" target="_blank">app manifest documentation</a> to learn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to <a href="https://api.slack.com/reference/manifests" target="_blank">app manifest documentation</a> to learn
```
```suggestion
Refer to the <a href="https://api.slack.com/reference/manifests" target="_blank">App Manifest documentation</a> to learn
```

about the available manifest configurations.

> Notably this file informs slack of the definitions for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notably this file informs Slack of the definitions for:
```

Author: Ouuuu good catch 💯

> * [functions](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-functions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Functions](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-functions)
```

> * [workflows](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-workflows)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Workflows](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-workflows)
```

> `manifest.json` is located at the top level <a href="https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-python-starter-template" target="_blank">our example projects</a>, along with a `triggers` folder containing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`manifest.json` is located at the top level of <a href="https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-python-starter-template" target="_blank">our example projects</a>, along with a `triggers` folder containing
```

`*_trigger.json` files that define the <a href="https://api.slack.com/future/triggers" target="_blank">triggers</a>
for your app.

<pre class="structure">
.
├── ...
├── manifest.json             # app manifest definition
├── triggers                  # folder with trigger files
│   ├── sample_trigger.json   # trigger definition
│   └── ...
└── ...
</pre>

<br>

#### Linting, prediction & validation

> Syntax and formatting check is required to efficiently edit your `manifest.json`, multiple IDEs are able to support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Syntax and formatting checks are required to efficiently edit your `manifest.json`. Multiple IDEs are able to support
```

> this, namely: <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/json#_mapping-in-the-json" target="_blank">visual studio code</a>, <a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/json.html#ws_json_schema_add_custom" target="_blank">pycharm</a>, <a href="https://www.sublimetext.com/" target="_blank">sublime text</a> (via <a href="https://packagecontrol.io/packages/LSP-json" target="_blank">lsp-json</a>) and many more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this, namely: <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/json#_mapping-in-the-json" target="_blank">Visual Studio Code</a>, <a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/json.html#ws_json_schema_add_custom" target="_blank">PyCharm</a>, <a href="https://www.sublimetext.com/" target="_blank">Sublime Text</a> (via <a href="https://packagecontrol.io/packages/LSP-json" target="_blank">LSP-json</a>) and many more.
```

---
title: Manifest
lang: en
slug: manifest
order: 2
layout: future
---

<div class="section-content">

Your project should contain a `manifest.json` file that defines your app's manifest, which is where you can configure your application name and scopes, declare the functions your app will use, and more.
Refer to the <a href="https://api.slack.com/reference/manifests" target="_blank">App Manifest documentation</a> to learn
about the available manifest configurations.

> Notably this file informs Slack of the definitions for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notably, the App Manifest informs Slack of the definitions for:
```

> * [Functions](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-functions)

Reviewer: Thoughts on including a very brief, one-line definition of a Function and a Workflow within these bullets?

Author: I feel like this would be super-fluent since the link brings them directly the section on the topic 🤔

Reviewer: ahh yeah, I see what you're saying! I think specifically for Functions, I wasn't sure if it was defined clearly enough throughout these docs. If it feels like the definition for that is pretty explicit in itself though, then we can definitely leave it as is!

Author: I think that these docs should be sufficient for now, the `manifest documentation` will definitely be revised in the very near future, maybe we will have some feedback as well

* [Workflows](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-workflows)

> `manifest.json` is located at the top level of <a href="https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-python-starter-template" target="_blank">our example projects</a>, along with a `triggers` folder containing

Reviewer: This only looks to be the case for simple apps such as the starter template, while the Request Time Off one (and I'm guessing the more complex apps in general) will house the `manifest.json` in a `manifest` folder. Maybe we could add a note specifying this?

Author: Steve recommended that we always place the `manifest.json` at the top level of the project, I've updated the sample apps to reflect this

---
title: Manifest
lang: en
slug: manifest
order: 2
layout: future
---

<div class="section-content">

Your project should contain a `manifest.json` file that defines your app's manifest, where you can configure your app. Refer to <a href="https://api.slack.com/reference/manifests" target="_blank">app manifest documentation</a> to learn about the available manifest configurations.

Notably this file informs slack of the definitions for:

* [functions](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-functions)
* [workflows](/bolt-python/future/concepts#manifest-workflows)

> `manifest.json` should be located at the top level of your project, along with a `triggers` folder containing `*_trigger.json` files that define the <a href="https://api.slack.com/future/triggers" target="_blank">triggers</a> for your app.

Reviewer 2: Since bolt-python supports manifest.json outside of the project root, I'm not sure how valuable it is for devs to be too prescriptive here. I think we can remove this

Author: I included this in just to show where the manifest file is located in our templates, some of them have a lot configuration files at the top level of the project

@srajiang what do you think of just changing to wording like this
```suggestion
`manifest.json` should be located at the top level of our example projects, along with a `triggers` folder containing `*_trigger.json` files that define the <a href="https://api.slack.com/future/triggers" target="_blank">triggers</a> for your app.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`manifest.json` is located at the top level of our example projects, along with a `triggers` folder containing `*_trigger.json` files that define the <a href="https://api.slack.com/future/triggers" target="_blank">triggers</a> for your app.
```
Ah okay, maybe let's go all the way ☝️ and link to the example project as well?

Author: Yess the link is a great idea 💯  Ill put the template link

<pre class="structure">
.
├── ...
├── manifest.json             # app manifest definition
├── triggers                  # folder with trigger files
│   ├── sample_trigger.json   # trigger definition
│   └── ...
└── ...
</pre>

---

> Be sure to include the following line in your `manifest.json` file in order to get type prediction & validation in your IDE.

Reviewer 2: Lets put this under it's own subheader under manifest?

Author: Great idea I will add a sub-header for this 🥇

> Be sure to include the following line in your `manifest.json` file in order to get type prediction & validation in your IDE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get type prediction & validation in your IDE, include the following line in your `manifest.json` file:
```
Also might be good to include something about this working with various IDEs. 

This additional line could be included in sample app manifest.json if not already!

Author: Yess thats a good idea, I've added some info about IDE support 🥇
